---
layout: post
title: "CloudKit"
date: 2014-06-13 09:45:29 +0200
comments: true
categories:
published: false
---

Why CloudKit is cool for users
- No onboarding
- Friend discovery
- Privacy
- 

Why Cloudkit is cool for developers.




Is Cloudkit Evil?
- Vendor lock-in argument is easy to make
-- Apple does the full banana, which enables them to offer such a powerfull, seamless experience. Control. Also, without vendor support this level of integration and ease of use is near impossible. 
- Current CloudKit is a walled garden, no API call provided to share images a la instagram, webhooks or other external consumable API. 
-- I can think of several reasons why this is now the case:
--- CloudKit is not even 1.0. The current scope of CloudKit is already huge. You  


Free, with Limits
- Plan details.
- Some example user calculations.
- Active users vs all time user.
- Private vs public data.
- Unclear what happens when limit is reached. No stats visible (yet)
- Unclear what the limits are in development mode.
- Unclear how to view the DB limits, they might be generous, but as there are no usage stats yet, no conclusion can be made.
- Because premium plans are not announced, it's not sure what will happen when you go over the current thresholds. My optimistic guess is when you have a nice, representative app that is pretty popular and communicates efficiently with CloudKit, Apple is more than happy to relax some of the limit for you. They like a nice showcase for their system.
- Efficiency tips
-- Only query for what you need
-- Cache retrieved data and assets
-- Use subscriptions to invalidate caches and get fresh data.
-- Downsample iPhone images. Don't let users store video's or big files in the public database.




Missing stuff
- Aggregate queries
- Usage stats
- Record pagination (?)
- Server side logic or trigger. They do have cascading delete.
- Public sharing of assets.



- Some calculations on the allotments

Why I think Cloudkit matters
- iCloud user system.


Current Cloudkit sweetspot


CloudKit alternatives





Current limitations:

- no usage stats
- not clear what development limits are
-

Video and PDF links + link to cloudkit announcement, API details, Sample application

See also
- Brent notes.
- 
